We now need to configure the first five telnet lines and use a line password of Cisco on the Telnet
lines.
So at the moment if I try and Telnet to write it to I get connection closed by foreign host show run
shows us the key why lines.
By default we have a zero to 4.
In other words the first five Viti wine lines so line V2 wine 0 to 4 log in means that we need to configure
a password on the line.
And in this example it's going to be Cisco.
So we need to configure that password per our instructions on write it to line V2 y 0 to 4.
Now a lot of Cisco devices have more than 5 Viti y lines but that's often what you asked to configure
in CCMA exam scenarios.
So that's what we'll do here offset to the password to Cisco.
So now that that's done can we Telnet to it 2 and notice we can be prompted for our line password once
we enter that we're in user mode.
And then when we type enable we need to enter our secret password which is Cisco ONE TWO THREE notice
I can now configure write it to tab exit I'm back on rudder one on rudder two.
Can I Telnet to write one.
Yes I can and I can go to privilege mode to enable mode and go back to rudder to so I've successfully
made sure that I can tell it from one rudder to the other I now need to configure a console password
of Cisco and test that it works so at the moment when I connect to the console of the router and press
center I'm immediately in user mode
but if I type a line and in this case specify console 0 and use the command log in and specify positive
Cisco I'll be prompted to enter a password on the console and notice there you go when I try and connect
to the console I need to enter the positive Cisco then
Cisco ONE TWO THREE TO GET TO privilege mode.
So again a rather t note password at the moment press Enter or Return and I'm straight in to use a mode
but if I configure the console with a password of Cisco
and press Enter now I have to enter a positive Cisco to get to use a mode and then Cisco ONE TWO THREE
TO GET TO privilege mode now we're not told to do it but as a best practice I suggest that you save
your configuration in the exam if you're not explicitly told not to do it then do it.
So unless they tell you not to save your configuration as a lost step use the command copy running config
thought up config to save your configuration that's the exam way of doing it for the real world unlike
the old command W R which saves the configuration immediately without prompting you to confirm it the
command is also a lot shorter so I prefer this command for labs or for the real world but for the exam
remember copy running config startup config so we've successfully completed to this lab How did you
do when you tried the lab.
Were you able to complete it.
Did you learn something.
Remember to keep practicing.
Keep trying.
That's the best way to learn.